# BYOK Fortanix Self-Defending KMS keys to Cloud Providers Salesforce
---

## Short Description

Fortanix Self-Defending KMS can be used as HSM backed Software-as-a-service(SAAS) for Fortanix - Salesforce Cache only BYOK solution. This plugin can be used to securely generate encryption keys and configure in Salesforce’s Shield Platform.

## Introduction

Salesforce's Shield Platform Encryption is introducing a new pilot feature called Cache-Only Keys. This capability enhances the existing Bring Your Own Key (BYOK) capability by allowing customers to host their key material in a wrapped format which Salesforce will fetch as required. While this will be cached in an encrypted form, Salesforce will not retain or persist the key material in any system of record or backups.

## Use cases

1. Generate encryption keys 
2. use Fortanix Self-Defending KMS key in Salesforce as Cache-only Key at runtime

## Fortanix Self-Defending KMS Setup

1. Log in to Fortanix Self-Defending KMS (https://sdkms.fortanix.com)
2. Create an account in Fortanix Self-Defending KMS
3. Create a group in Fortanix Self-Defending KMS
4. Create an app in Fortanix Self-Defending KMS. Copy the value of App username and password. This would be required while setting up Named Credential in Salesforce.  
5. Create a plugin in Fortanix Self-Defending KMS 

## Configure Salesforce import Certificate in Fortanix Self-Defending KMS

Generate and Download a Self Signed Certificate in Salesforce and import it in fortanix Self-Defending KMS 

1. Log in to Salesforce. Go to "Setup" 
2. Create a (Self Signed) certificate under Security >> Certificate and Key Management with key size 4096.
3. Disable the check box "Exportable Private Key"
4. Select the check box to "Use Platform Encryption"
5. Once the certificate is created, please download it

Import the Certificate to Fortanix Self-Defending KMS.

1. Log in to Fortanix Self-Defending KMS
2. Select an account and Click the left navigation bar to navigate to the "Security Objects" tab
3. Click the IMPORT button
4. Choose value format as “BASE 64”.
5. Choose Security Object type as “Certificate”.
6. Click the Upload a file button to upload the converted certificate at Step 5.
7. Click the IMPORT button to import the certificate into Fortanix Self-Defending KMS as a security object.

## Salesforce Setup

Define Named Credential in Salesforce.

1. Log in to Salesforce. Go to "Setup"
2. Click the “Named Credentials” item under the Security menu in the left navigation bar
3. Click the button New Named Credential. It will open a screen to create a Named Credential
4. Enter the details for named credential
4.1 Enter Label & Name of your choice
4.2 Enter the plugin URL as in example (UUID: UUID of the plugin created in the section Fortanix Self-Defending KMS Setup Step 3 ). Example: https://www.sdkms.fortanix.com/sys/v1/plugins/invoke/<plugin-uuid>
4.3 Select the Identity Type as “Named Principal” and Authentication Protocol as “Password Authentication”
4.4 Enter the username and password of Fortanix Self-Defending KMS app and then click Save

## Steps to generate encryption keys and import to Salesforce

Generate JWE Token (BYOK Cache only KEY) using the plugin.

1. Go to plugin created in Step 5 of section Fortanix Self-Defending KMS Setup.
2. Click ADD TEST INPUT on the right-hand side.
3. Enter the following payload in the text box.

```
{
"cert": <uuid of certificate imported in SDKMS>,
"name": "<unique name of key eg: salesforce_ency_key_v1>"
}
```

4.  RUN TEST

The plugin generates security objects (AES encryption key and meta information) in Fortanix Self-Defending KMS and returns their UUID.

1. dek: is UUID of AES encryption key generated by the plugin and stored securely in Fortanix Self-Defending KMS. Salesforce will use it as a data encryption key.
2. opq_key_identifier: Fortanix Self-Defending KMS plugin also generates a security object of type “OPAQUE”. It contains meta-information to generate a response (JWE Token) required by Salesforce. Meta-information has the following information:

Copy the value of “opq_key_identifier” field in the response body. This would be required while setting up BYOK in Salesforce.

When Salesforce platform calls Fortanix Self-Defending KMS plugin to fetch encryption keys. The plugin reads meta information from opaque object and processes "dek" key material and certificate used (while generating meta info and AES initially) to generate JWE token. The same is returned to Salesforce in the desired JSON format.

Refer salesforce documentation for more info on JWE token.

"dek” value is AES encryption key which is generated by the plugin and the key is stored in Fortanix Self-Defending KMS. The key material would be securely transferred to Salesforce as part of JWE token.

Go to the Security Objects screen to see the newly created object.

## Configure Salesforce to use Fortanix Self-Defending KMS to fetch Cache-only Key at runtime.

1. Go to Setup >> Security >> Platform Encryption >> Key Management
2. Click the Bring Your Own Key button
3. Select the desired certificate to be used (it should be same as the one used while executing plugin to generate an encryption key and meta information)
4. Select Use a Cache-Only Key radio button.
5. Select Named Credential created with Fortanix Self-Defending KMS endpoint.
6. Enter BYOK ID (opq_key_identifier) generated by the Fortanix Self-Defending KMS plugin in Step 1.
7. Click Save.
8. Once the configuration is saved, Salesforce will call Fortanix Self-Defending KMS to fetch JWE token and decrypt it with the private key of the certificate.
9. You can see the newly imported key on the “Key Management” screen

Verify the Key Import in the Fortanix Self-Defending KMS Event logs.

1. Logs are generated in Fortanix Self-Defending KMS while fetching encryption keys during setup (after step 2i).
2. Go to Event Logs in Fortanix Self-Defending KMS to verify (refer below screenshot).
3. Logs are also generated later when Salesforce calls Fortanix Self-Defending KMS to fetch the encryption keys at runtime.

## Reference

- Fortanix support (https://support.fortanix.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040488931-Exporting-Fortanix-Self-Defending-KMS-keys-to-Cloud-Providers-for-BYOK-Salesforce)
